comes from the Quest for good
explanations that is explanations that
are hard to vary without while still um
accounting for what they purport to
account for this principle one of the
reasons I like this principle is that
not only does it
explain um uh what the Criterion for
success is in science where it leads to
things like the principle of testability
of theories because a test uh constrains
the explanation so that it's hard to
vary but it also applies outside physics
uh in in philosophy in epistemology in
metaphysics and so on the same thing
applies and even beyond that in
political philosophy moral philosophy
and Aesthetics the same principle
applies everywhere and draws a
distinction between ideas that have a
chance of making progress and ideas that
have no chance of making progress